"In this paper, authors presented a price maximization scheme for optimal orthogonal frequency division for multiple access (OFDMA) subcarrier allocation for wireless video unicast/multicast scenarios. They formulate a pricing based video utility function for H.264 based wireless scalable video streaming, thereby achieving a trade-off between price and QoS fairness. These parametric models for scalable video rate and quality characterization are derived from the standard JSVM reference codec for the SVC extension of the H.264/AVC, and hence are directly applicable in practical wireless scenarios. With the aid of these models, they proposed auction based framework for revenue maximization of the transmitted video streams in the unicast and multicast 4G scenario. A closed form expression is derived for the optimal scalable video quantization step-size subject to the constraints of the unicast/multicast users in 4G wireless systems. This yields the optimal OFDMA subcarrier allocation for multi-user scalable video multiplexing. The proposed scheme is cognizant of the user modulation and code rate, and is hence amenable to adaptive modulation and coding (AMC) feature of 4G wireless networks. Further, they also consider a framework for optimal power allocation based on a novel revenue maximization scheme in OFDMA based wireless broadband 4G systems employing auction bidding models. This is formulated as a constrained convex optimization problem towards sum video utility maximization. We observe that as the demand for a video stream increases in broadcast/multicast scenarios, higher power is allocated to the corresponding video stream leading to a gain in the overall revenue/utility. We simulate a standard WiMAX based 4G video transmission scenario to validate the performance of the proposed optimal 4G scalable video resource allocation schemes. Simulations illustrate that the proposed optimal bandwidth and power allocation schemes result in a significant performance improvement over the suboptimal equal resource allocation schemes for scalable video transmission."
