"Introduction S. Mosteshar. 1. Introductory Remarks K.-H. Bockstiegel. 2. Financing Space Research and Inventions C.S. Dubin. 3. Micro-Gravity Experiments in Japan H. Suzuki. 4. Aspects contractuels des operations en micro-gravite J.-P. Raynaud. 5. Aspects of Contracts Involving Research Centres C.H. Moehlenhof. 6. Rights and obligations of participants in Space Materials Processing Activities P.D. Nesgos. 7. Commercial Use of Space in Europe: From a Matter of Independence to a Matter of Business J.-P. Fouquet, J.Y. Le Gall. 8. Evolution of U.S. Commercial Space Policies and Procedures E.A. Frankle. 9. Liability Regulations Applicable to Research and Invention in Outer Space and their Commercial Exploitation Bin Cheng. 10. Legal Liability Arising from Commercial Activities in Outer Space I. Awford. 11. Recent Developments in Space Law Litigation L.S. Kaplan. 12. Issues Arising in Determining the Legal Regime Applicable to Intellectual Property Rights in Outer Space S. Mosteshar. 13. Issues of Intellectual Property in Relation to Research and Invention in Outer Space: European Community Perspective D. Staunder. 14. The European Space Agency: Intellectual Property Rights and International Cooperation/ L'Agence Spatiale Europeenne: Propriete intellectuelle et cooperation internationale A.M. Balsano. 15. Intellectual Property Rights with Respect to Inventions, Created in Space O. Vorobieva. 16. Research and Invention in Outer Space and their Commercial Exploitation: Liability and Intellectual Property Rights S. Mosteshar. 17. Intellectual Property Issues in Space Activities S. Mosteshar. Appendix 1: Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies. Appendix 2: Agreement on the Rescue of Astronauts, the Return of Astronauts and the Return of Objects Launched into Outer Space. Appendix 3: Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects. Appendix 4: Convention on Registration of Objects Launched into Outer Space. Appendix 5: Agreement Governing the Activities of States on the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies. Appendix 6: Agreement among the Government of the United States of America, Governments of Member States of the European Space Agency, the Government of Japan, and the Government of Canada on Cooperation in the Detailed Design, Development, Operation and Utilisation of the Permanently Manned Civil Space Station."
