"Cyberattacks depend, to a large extent on surprise. Because they do, the efficacy of their attacks may well fall sharply after the outset of an extended campaign – although that is not entirely bad news if some of the adjustments made to minimize future damage are themselves damaging (e.g., not trusting information that was once corrupted). Nevertheless, if cyberwarriors wish to maintain their relevance over the course of some future military campaign they need to understand how adversaries are likely to react to the first wave of cyberattacks. Furthermore, if cyberwarriors are to fulfill their defensive roles, it may help to understand how their own non-cyber colleagues are apt to react, the better to prioritize the assistance they provide in using lessons from attacks to secure their own systems.To understand how the target may adjust it helps to think of it as a multi-stage process: (1) recognizing a system is not performing as it should, (2) identifying the nature of the malfunction, (3) determining the weaknesses in the target system that allowed the cyberattack, (4) engineering a fix, and (5) promulgating the fix throughout the organization.This, in turn, would suggest why some organizations adjust faster than others. One reason is organizational culture. Does it take cybersecurity seriously? Are its people allowed to find faults and tell the truth about them? Is responsibility for fixing faults clear? Does the organization tell others? Another reason arises from the nature of the attacked systems – can their owners afford to take it down and change it without creating new faults or without having to retrain users? A third reason stems from whether the organization has access to outside vendors of software and cybersecurity – yielding a pronounced advantage for those that do.All this suggests strategies for confounding the target’s adjustment strategy. Choose targets carefully, concentrating on targets that react slowly. Keep up the military pressure in ways that inhibit withdrawing systems for repair. Limit the size and scope of cyberattacks so that the effects are less obvious, hence less likely to be attended to. Exploit a vulnerability that is particular to the target rather than one that is more widespread. Use penetration methods that are difficult to find (perhaps by using entry points that are difficult to trace). Use deception and distraction. Last, persuade third parties to hold off helping.Putting these concepts into practice is not trivial. A first guess on how others may react may come from gauging how one’s own forces would. Modeling a logical decision process – one that reflects known pathologies of potential adversaries – may provide another perspective. Historical analogies may provide an insight or two. In any case, USCYBERCOM needs to develop a body of research and exploration that acknowledges the potential of others to learn. Thus can it figure out how to make them learn slowly, incompletely, or, better yet, incorrectly."
