"The paper deals with the e-commerce theory and is aimed primarily at its usage in business-to- consumer markets. On-line purchasing management is increasing not only in the Czech Repub- lic but also in Europe and all over the world. The customers who think rationally use on-line shopping because of money saving, speed delivery and the possibility of product comparison. This paper presents the results of a project financed by the Czech Science Foundation P403/11/ P175: The factors influencing customers' on-line behaviour in e-commerce environment on B2C and B2B markets in the Czech Republic. 89 % of respondents use e-shops for buying products in the Czech Republic. 32 % of them use the Internet for regular purchases and 57 % of them irregularly. 11 % of respondents have not used e-shops yet. More than 85 % of the world's online population has used the Internet to make a purchase - in- creasing the market for online shopping by 40 % in the past two years - according to the latest Nielsen Global Online Survey on Internet shopping habits. Globally, more than half of Internet users have made at least one purchase online in the past month, according to Nielsen. Among Internet users, the highest percentage shopping online is found in South Korea, where 99 % of those with Internet access have used it to shop, followed by the UK (97 %), Germany (97 %), Japan (97 %) with the U.S. eighth, at 94 %. (The Nielsen Company, 2008) The Internet and its tools no longer feel unfamiliar. Still the majority of its users are afraid of on-line purchases even though there are a number of advantages. Young generation is an exception. The Internet enables (together with new marketing approaches) customers as well as companies quickly and efficiently buy and sell goods or services. The area of e-commerce is still a new phenomenon in the Czech Republic and is worth exploring and developing. And it was one of the reasons to explore on-line buying behaviour in the Czech Republic. The main goal of this paper is to introduce the general view of on-line purchasing from e-shop users characteristics, their preferences, expenses, purchasing frequencies and main fears by on-line shopping acceptations point of view."
