"Commercial law should be Intelligible to business people, when and if they have it explained to them. After all, development of businesses precedes development of applicable laws. However, it is becoming ever more difficult to explain to people who operate businesses in a networked environment what the relevant law is, and why they should conform to it. Often is hard to convince them of the relevance, and this is all the harder when sets of laws appear to (or do) conflict, or are just not a “good fit” because legislators' and drafters' understanding of what an Industry comprises have been poor. Misconceptions arise, and become embedded. How many lawyers have asked clients, “Are you licensed to use this software in this way?”, and received the answer, “Yes, of course we are, we've bought and paid for It”? Yet you know they have not taken an assignment of the stuff by way of sale and purchase, that it has been supplied to them under licence, and that the licence contains definitions of permitted use, and may well not be perpetual and may not permit use of source code to footle about with the software. But try explaining that to someone who has paid good money to get semething and whose commercial experiance Iidentified by him as “common sence”) tells him that he is entitled do what he likes with it once he has got it. Dematerlalization of whole industries is going to make the lawyer's predicament even worse. What follows is a description of a practical attempt to explain to people working in the stock, commodity and moneymarkets what claims they might make to “ownership” of the electronic data of which that industry is now comprised. Data generated by this industry are the subject of rules relating to (1) the governance of exchanges and (li) intellectual property. Industry participants readily understand (I) but tend to have but a sketchy grasp of (II). The advent of the EU Directive on the legal protection of databases (96/9/EC), which purports to extent copyright protect the “selection and arrangement” of databases, but not their “contents”, has made the task of explaining (ii) all the more difficult. Exchange data represent events. Exchanges' databases represent sequences of events represented in programs. The dichotomy of idea/expression is difficult enough to explain and apply, but explaining the trichotomy of event-as-program/content-as-program/structure-as-program is near to impossible — particularly if there is only one program. And if one manages to do so the question remains, what is the use of it?"
