"HAROLD E. MORTIMER: As our Chairman indicated, we are going to start off with the baby of consumer credit, electronic money. Electronic transfer, or electronic funds transfer system, may be a misnomer. And for those of you who may not have been reading Fortune or Business Week or the New York Law Journal, or the New York Times, that have all recently been running a series of articles on it, you may be aware or unaware that because of our computer technology we now have the facility, to send information all over this country, transfer information and store information in mini-seconds. The theory is that this new system will be utilized to replace checks, money and credit cards. It's always spoken of in the generic term, electronic funds transfer system, or EFTS. But I think we have to start off recognizing at the beginning that it is a multiplicity of services. It is not a single service. It covers a wide variety of transactions. Some of the most important ones are direct deposit of income checks, period automatic payments out of a fund account, credit card authorizations, check verifications, point-of-sale payments, billing operations, automatic clearing house services, cash dispensing, and probably the most important, data capture. The last item is an area that we will have to be very concerned about. As there is a multiplicity of services, there's a multiplicity of suppliers. While the financial institutions may be making the most headway in this area, at least in the public sector, just as active. are the retail organizations, credit card organizations, servicing bureaus, a whole new proliferation of companies called EFTS service organizations, communications media, and equipment manufacturers. So not only do you have a lot of services, you have a lot of players. When you have anything that broad and those of you who represent clients getting into this area know how extensive these services are you have a multiplicity of problems to think about in the legal area. These include the Uniform Commercial Code, banking laws, corporate laws, communications laws, consumer regulations, insurance laws, antitrust laws, tort laws, and usury laws, and I am sure I still have not finished the list. Clearly today I cannot talk about all of the above areas of law in any"
