"Current IT market has increased significantly boosted by the development of network technology and IT technology. As we move into an aging society, global people have paid attentions to the matters related to health while the many technologies related to health have been developed, too. Such a change of social paradigm has improved the quality of life but various mental diseases show its growing trend. The past mental disease matters were limited to the area of chronic mental disease patients, but recently light mental diseases including the stress caused by excessive work and internet addiction are included in this area. Especially there are many cases where early treatable depressions have been developed into the serious diseases as they had no chance to recognition and healing or missed the appropriate time for healing. Even if various health related mobile services to solve this show it gradual growing trend now, providing services which correspond to the needs of users, are difficult in the actual situation, while many researches are performed to provide the customized service by utilizing PHR but they are very vulnerable in the aspect of security. Therefore, in this paper, we proposed the context aware based user customized light therapy service using security framework. The proposed service applied the context aware based security framework to enhance the security of health service for PHR interlocking, which can protect the medical information by complying with standard based encryption, security guideline. For this purpose, we arranged that object group support component of DOGF should be existed in server system and components such as user information and distributed sources re-composed by smart health for service providing. Based on this, the user’s states was analyzed in real time through Personal Health Record and Galvanic Skin Response of users, the brightness and chromaticity of bulb was adjusted depending on the states of user for soothing effect, the real-time states was figured out through questionnaires for mental states analysis of smartphone application to provide the real-time treatment for users stress alleviating and concentration enhancement. Also focused on Psychological illness, we arranged to provide the real-time light therapy according to the states of users based on the data of patients collected from smart device in order to mental disease prevention and treatment caused from the stress of workers who work with computer for a long time such as office workers, program developer and home workers."
