"Using Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) to build an information system is a hot topic at present. The primary goal of this paper is to investigate how to build a SOA-based information system in a special industry-the field of emergency vehicles in environment protection industry. The paper provides a presentation of current compositions of the emergency vehicles information system and then gives out the system structure. The paper proceeds with the business process flow and working principle of an emergency vehicle information system. A service-oriented architecture framework for emergency vehicles information system is proposed. design pattern in most professions. At present, however, the system applications based on SOA are limited in the fixed fields, such as banking, logistics, communications, electric power, etc. The purpose of this article is to provide a SOA-based solution for the Emergency Vehicle Information System (EVIS) in the environment protection field. Building an information platform for emergency vehicles is a valuable work at present and the progress may be maked slowly. In Finland, the emergency vehicles used by police, customs, frontier guards are increasingly dependent on ICT systems, especially wireless and mobile communications, and the information platform has been built completely at some respects(4). In reference 4, the authors have shown an ICT integration solution for emergency vehicles, but that was only an abstract description. In this paper, combined with the real project, we give out a concrete solution for emergency vehicles information system based on SOA. And the key point is the solution framework for real business processing in environment protection field. The content of this paper was arranged as follows. First, the paper introduces the summary of SOA and its application in software engineering is discussed. Then, the current situation of the emergency vehicles information system which is gradually implemented in the environment protection field is studied. We give out the problems of these systems. Emphatically, we propose the design scheme based on SOA of the emergency vehicles information system. Combining the business process flow, we studied the services' design and the using method of the services."
