"Summary This article has outlined some of the legal considerations with which data security officers and other management personnel should be familiar: a checklist at the end of the article covers some of the points discussed. Particularly important from the company's point of view is the need to examine legal obligations and contractual commitments undertaken by the company as to security of data processing systems programs and databases. There are many situations that management must analyze from a security viewpoint. For example: • When acquiring software from a new vendor, review the licence agreement for clauses with specific requirements about security. • When licence agreements with previous software vendors are amended, review the amendments to see if there are any changes in the security requirements. • When the company licenses others to use its software, review to see whether there are any security requirements imposed on the licensee that the company as licensor should supervise. • Consult with the company's tax accountants to be sure that security precautions required by the IRS are being followed. • Review security procedures to protect the company in situations where there is labour unrest or layoffs are planned. • If the company has undertaken government contracts that involve records on people, review security procedures to be sure that they comply with privacy acts. • Consult with the personnel department to be sure that data processing security of personnel records is appropriate. • Compare security techniques used by the company with those promulgated by the National Institute of Standards and Technology; if there are differences, document the reason for not following the federal standard. • Review contracts between the company and governmental agencies to determine whether they include any specific data security requirements. While following the foregoing outline will not guarantee that the company — or management — will escape from legal liability, compliance with the various suggestions will make such liability much less likely. 58"
