"Unknowingly breaking privacy legislation is an overhanging concern. Some commentators including Bruce Schneier have declared that privacy is a luxury of a bygone era. Location-based services can pin down the whereabouts of your phone, PDA and car. With these new upcoming technologies, the need for privacy controls is increasing. Privacy has become an information security problem. Privacy means different things to different people so is difficult to specify in legislation. Confusion about data protection can lead to privacy breaches or the storage of unnecessary data. Research has stated that users should be able to control seven aspects of their private information knows as the seven Cs. They include the ability to authorise the use of personal information and the ability to indicate privacy preferences. Researchers Gunter at al advocate the use of Digital Rights Management to protect privacy. Privacy issues can be divided into collection, access and use. Breaches can occur during data collection, processing and dissemination. DRM would allow data owners to control the dissemination of their information. Violating privacy includes: breach of confidentiality, disclosure, secondary use, insecurity. If we can successfully codify privacy in a manner consistent with legal interpretations we may also be able to codify it to support software development and systems implementations that handle personal data. Robert Rowlingson surveys some privacy research. Privacy is a broad subject, encompassing a wide range of activities, and subtle legal issues. It is a much more complex concept than commonly recognized. This paper considers some recent publications which are helping to clarify our understanding of privacy. The work presented sheds light on how to harmonise real-world applications that use personal data, with legal structures which are the ultimate protectors of privacy. The research described could eventually help businesses, and developers of IT systems which increasingly embody privacy risks, to reflect privacy issues and provide appropriate information security counter-measures."
