"The information technology and telecommunications (IT&T) industry is presently growing out of its infancy towards a certain level of maturity. At present the development of this industry and its marketplace has reached a level where standardization1 has become vitally important. One of the major reasons is that users in a multi-vendor environment require compatibility and interoperability of IT&T products. Standardization has become an issue of interest to both users and suppliers. ::: ::: In Europe, commitment to standardization is vital in creating an internal market. Without this internal market the European IT&T industry, of strategic importance to the EC, will not be able to survive in the struggle with Japan and the United States. ::: ::: Large buyers (governments, industry) are able to put pressure on the suppliers to conform to standards.2 Gradually, suppliers have conformed to a more serious approach to the standardization process and have realized that the former ‘lock-in’ effect of proprietary products has become a burden that locks out the supplier from a large part of the market.3 As Brock observes, in the IT&T industry standardization generally helps those firms trying to expand their marketshare and hurts those firms trying to defend their market against others4. For governments, standardization of IT&T products and services is an important instrument in regulating (international) trade and industry.5 This article offers an overview of a number of legal issues concerning standardization of information technology and telecommunications, focusing on developments in the EC. In most cases this will not imply a significant limitation on the scope of this article since IT&T developments have the same revolutionary characteristics all over the world and generally give rise to the same legal questions. ::: ::: This paper by Kees Stuurman, Attorney, provides a brief overview of the main characteristics of the process of IT&T standardization (organizations involved, interests, backgrounds, types of standards, figures). Subsequently, explorative analysis will consider the legal status of IT&T standards, the protection of standards documents, and the impact of standardization on liability and competition."
