"Abstract People use mobile devices for an increasing variety of purposes in order to enjoy the vast possibilities; they check the local weather, road traffic, personalised local news, their personalised favourite social network, etc. At the same time, application developers and market stores deploy mobile applications that collect vast amounts of information on mobile users, such as their age, gender, location or specific phone identifiers. Numerous studies illustrate that mobile applications collect valuable information about users and use it for profiling the users for their own purposes or sell this information for commercial interests. Therefore, the topic of consent to information processing becomes increasingly more interesting for researchers, legal experts and practitioners. In this paper, the authors examine the issue of valid informed consent for location tracking by mobile phone users. They first analyse the legal premises for informed consent that represent requirements for mobile application developers and providers who request consent. However, the ones who actually give consent are the mobile users and therefore their understanding of consent is of paramount importance. Extensive literature is missing on empirical studies examining the topic from the users' perception perspective. For that reason, the authors conduct an empirical investigation with mobile users and present their findings in the form of a process theory. The process theory reveals how users' valid informed consent for location tracking can be obtained, starting from enhancing reading the privacy policy to stimulating privacy awareness and enabling informed consent. The paper includes a discussion section in which the authors describe the implications of the process theory for the different stakeholders and offer recommendations deriving from the empirical findings. The contribution is addressed to software and mobile application developers and providers, technology regulation researchers and policy makers, as well as security and privacy researchers."
