"Dynamic taint analysis (DTA), as a mainstream information flow tracking technique, has been widely used in mobile security. On the Android platform, the existing DTA approaches are typically implemented by instrumenting the Dalvik virtual machine (DVM) interpreter or the Android emulator with taint enforcement code. The most prominent problem of the interpreter-based approaches is that they cannot work in the new Android RunTime (ART) environment introduced since the 5.0 release. For the emulator-based approaches, the most prominent problem is that they cannot be deployed on real devices. In addition, almost all the existing Android DTA approaches only concern the explicit information flow caused by data dependence, while completely ignore the impact of implicit information flow caused by control dependence. These problems limit their adoption in the latest Android system and make them ineffective in detecting the state-of-the-art malware whose privacy-breaching behaviors are inactivated in the analyzed environment (e.g., the emulator) or conducted via implicit information flow. In this paper, we present TaintMan, an ART-compatible DTA framework that can be deployed on unmodified and non-rooted Android devices. In TaintMan, the taint enforcement code is statically instrumented into both the target application and the system class libraries to track data flow and common control flow. A specially designed execution environment reconstruction technique, named reference hijacking, is proposed to force the target application to reference the instrumented system class libraries. By enforcing on-demand instrumentation and on-demand tracking, the performance overhead is significantly reduced. We have developed TaintMan and deployed it on two popular stock smartphones (HTC One S equipped with Android-4.0 and Motorola MOTO G equipped with Android-5.0). The evaluation with malware samples and real-world applications shows that TaintMan can effectively detect privacy leakage behaviors with an acceptable performance overhead."
